<style>hr{opacity: 20%; height: 1px!important; margin-bottom:0px!important</style>

By Ervina Maulida, MBA
- Create a strong professional branding
= Importance of rofessional networking
- Prepare communicate during interview

<br>

## Intro to Necessary Mindset <hr/>
1. Resume Screening :
- Minimum Qualifications : Mandatory qualifications (must-have), to do the jobs
- Preffered Qualifications : Desirable, make you a stronger candidate

A good resume include :
- Personal Detail
- Professional Summary
    - Concise is best, 
    - Use first person narrative when writing,
    - Highlight your specialities by adding as keywords, 
- Educational BG<br>
    Sample A too general, <br>
    Sample B shows more about the specialization and give the user's advantages.<br>
    Also there's an chronological order from newest top to oldest bottom.
- Working Experience
    What do you write, if you don't have a "professional" experience.<br>
    Use portfolio! and make sure to let them know what you're currently doing.<br>

- Skill & Interest
The top ones are too general, and you're put everything. Put something more relevant and most advanced!

<br>

## Tips on Resume Writing <hr/>
Make sure you're personalize, don't just copy template. Taylor based on your job.

Hello, I'm a third-year Informatics Engineering spesifically Data Science and Artificial Intelligence student at Universitas Surabaya. I'm a Machine Learning enthusiast volunteering in an open source projects around the world. I love the concept automation.

### Why Go Online?
- Social Networks : Linked in and Git Hub
- Job Boards : Kalibbr and Jobstreet

<br>

## Importance of Career Networking <hr/>
1. Face-to-face meet up in an event (if possible)
2. Networking letters and emails
3. Online engagement through various platforms

Coming in with a purpose!

Rule of thumb
You should be able to make connection with the other party in 30 seconds or less.<br>
Develop your elevator pitch :
- Who am I?
- What is my objective?
- What are my strengths and accomplishment?
- What is my passion?
- How to conclude the introduction?

My name is Theophil Henry S. I want to introduce everyone in the world to technology. I adapt well to a bad environment. I love to explore new technology, and I love to teach. I hope everyone in the world get the chance to try and maintain their life with technology!

My name is Theophil Henry S, you can call me Theo 😊. I'm a data scientist from UBAYA. I want to introduce everyone in the world to technology. I adapt well to a new environment. I love to explore new technology, and I love to teach. I hope everyone in the world get the chance to try and maintain their life with technology!

<br>

## Understanding the Hiring Selection Process & How to Prepare <hr/>
- Generic Recruitment :
1. Apply 
2. Shortlist 
3. Pre asssessment 
4. 1st Interview 
5. 2nd Interview 
6. Offer 
7. Hire

- Software Engineers
1. Resume
2. Coding Pre Assessment
3. HR Interview (BEI)
4. User Interview (Code Pairing)
5. Offering

### Discussion
- Tell me about yourself

    Make sure to asnwer :
    - Who you are
    - Highlight Experiences
    - State your motivation

- Situational Questions

    `STAR Strategy` : Situation Task Action Result <br>
    Have a potential questions, and prepare the solution.

    Situation : Paint the background, what is your job title, what was the obstacle, 

    Task : You may be asked, you may describe your responsibility.

    Action : Handle the situation, what you do, what make you did the way you did.

    Result : What's the outcome generated by the taken action. 

### STAR Example

During my internship at XYZ company, I had been assigned project C that was originally scheduled for completion in 30-days, however, my supervisor instructed to have it completed within 20-days. At the time, I was simultaneously working on my thesis and I had organized my schedule around the initial timeline. After further review of the task, I realized it was possible to complete within a shorter time frame, however, it required requesting my supervisor to provide her feedback within 24-hours 

instead of the initially scheduled 48-hour timeframe. I also adjusted my schedule so that during that 24-hour project feedback period, I could work on my thesis. I successfully completed my project and thesis on time, by prioritizing my tasks, finding solutions and reaching an effective working process with my supervisor. 

### Situational Problem
Share your relevant experience, and how well you managed the situation. 

<br>

## Do's and Don't online interview <hr/>
- Internet stability. Prepare hotspot.
- Virtual BG preparation, don't make it a distraction.
- Mindful of your behavior, not doing anything kucek", senderan, tiduran, yawning. 
- Don't be late.
- Don't leave your cellphone on, switching off notifications
- Don't dress to casually. Demonstrate that you're serious enough.

### Conclusions
1. Preparing for your career means researching, networking, and learning.
2. Start by defining your goal and puposes.
3. Make sure your resume is complete.
4. Building a strong network is essential for your career.
5. Interviews are about preparation.
6. Never give up.

